Git 2nd class notes

Git when working on the local machine uses three sections
1. working directory or workspace
2. Stagging Area
3. Local Repository

Working dir is the physical folder where the developers 
create all the code and initially all the files present here are called untracked file.

Stagging Area is the intermediate buffer zone into which files are 
moved and these files are called as stagged files.

Local Repository if the location where version controlling happens
and the files present here are called commited files.

1. To  initilise the current folder as a git repository the command we give is 
git init

2. To send a file from working dir to stagging area 
git add filename

3. to send multiple files to stagging area
git add file1 file2 file3

4. to send all the files and folders into the stagging area
git add .

Note:  .represents current working directory

5. To send filefrom stagging area back to working directory 
git rm --cached filename

 or
git reset filename

6. To send files from stagging area to the local repository 
git commit -m "some message"

7. To see the info about files present in working dir and stagging area
git status

8. To see the list of commits that are done in the local repository
git log 

9. To see the commit inof in one line format
git  log --oneline

Note: git commit will move all the files from stagging to local repository
To move only specific files from stagging to local repository
git commit -m "fourth commit" filename

example :- git commit -m "fourth commit" file4


.gitignore
============

This is a special configuration file where we can store private files
info. any file whose name is mentioned in .gitignore will no longer
be accessed by git 

1. Create few file
touch f1 f2 f3 f4 f5

2. check the status of git
git status

it will show the above files as untracked

3. create a file called .gitignore and store the private filesin it
cat > .gitignore
f1
f2
f3
f4
f5
to come out of cat command Ctrl+d

4. check the status of git
git status

it will no longer show the above four files as untracked.only
.gitignore will be shown in the untracked section 
